# Semantic HTML
Understand the importance of using semantic elements and explore some common examples

The HTML we write makes up the DOM, which then feeds into the accessibility tree. There is a direct line between the Semantic HTML that we write and the ability of accessible technologies to interpret our content to users.

semantics = study of meanings.

Building on that, Semantic HTML is using HTML in a way that infers the meaning of each item, so that other developers and external technologies can quickly and easily discern what’s happening on the page.

Semantic HTML is the best practice.

# Advantages
1. Easy-to-read code

2. Search engine optimization: 
    - Search engines like Google, Bing, and DuckDuckGo use web crawlers (bots) to:
        - Scan (crawl) web pages.
        - Read and interpret the content.
        - Index it i.e., store information about what the page is about.
        - Use this information to rank results when someone performs a search.

    - When your code is semantic, the structure helps search engine crawlers to -
        - Understand the topic and importance of each section
        - Recognize keywords in meaningful contexts (like headings or articles)
        - Distinguish main content from sidebars or ads.
        - As a result, your page becomes easier to index correctly and more likely to appear in relevant search results.

3. Assistive technologies: 
    - Semantic elements have embedded information about the name, description, role, state, and interaction options for various types of content
    - This information gets passed from the element to the DOM, from the DOM to the accessibility tree, and from the accessibility tree to various assistive technologies (such as screen readers), which then communicate the information to the user

4. Keyboard navigation:
    - When we make use of semantic, native elements, we get all that tried-and-true accessibility built right in for free.
    - The browser already knows what kind of element this is and has provided multiple ways for the user to interact with it.

# Examples of semantic HTML
Text-related tags: H1 to H6, p, button, img, header, nav, footer, aside, main, article, figure, section, forms, table, progress, cite, abbr, code, pre, time, audio, video, etc. 