# The Accessibility Tree
Understand the different types of information provided to the accessibility tree and how it is used by assistive technologies.

The way we write HTML is incredibly important because it informs the accessibility tree.

The browser parses HTML into a DOM tree, and from that, builds an Accessibility tree that exposes meaningful elements, roles, and states to assistive technologies through an A11y API.

The accessibility tree is generated based on the DOM tree and becomes a parallel structure to the DOM tree.


# Objects in the accessibility tree
- Each element in the DOM tree becomes an object in the accessibility tree. 
- Each object in the accessibility tree contains information about four or five different properties, depending on the object type: 
    - name: created based on the label that’s applied, 
    - description: additional information beyond what is described in the name. 
        - Can be manually attached by using ```aria-describedby``` attribute. 
        - If a manual description isn’t available or isn’t possible, then the description is generated from the relevant content within the element.
    - role: Simply states what the object is. 
        - Determined based on the semantic HTML tag used to define the element
    - state: The state captures whether the object has a current user interaction state and, if so, what it is. 
        - the state information for a checkbox will indicate whether it’s currently checked or not. the checked attribute on the checkbox below communicates state information.
        - In situations state information is not available, the developer can manually attach this information via different WAI-ARIA attributes, such as aria-disabled, aria-selected, aria-pressed, aria-checked, etc.
    - interaction options: These aren’t always included in an accessibility tree object.
        - If an object is static and can’t be interacted with (such as text, an image, etc.), then this won’t be included.
        - If an object can be interacted with (such as inputs, selects, links, etc.), then information about how the user is allowed to interact with it will be provided to the assistive technology via the accessibility tree.

# How this information is used
All the information is passed along to assistive technologies, which is then compiled and translated for the users.
- Let's consider the size selection drop-down, and assume that it’s being accessed via a screen reader.
    - The accessibility tree is what tells the screen reader that the user is currently focused on a select element called “Sizes.” The screen reader now knows that this select element has three options (small, medium, and large). It’s currently defaulted to the “medium” option, and it’s not turned off, so the user can make a new selection from among those options. This allows the screen reader to talk the user through their current position, as well as provide them with instructions as to how they can interact with this element.