# Page titles
Understand the purpose of page titles and learn how to write page titles for optimum accessibility.

## Significance of titles in navigation
Page titles exist to help orient the user within the scope of our website or application.

They don't get displayed in the layout. 
- They are displayed in browser in ways: via tabs and in the bookmarks. 
- Additionally, they also appear in search results (SEO benefits)

The page title is also the first element that gets announced by a screen reader when a user loads our page. This means that page titles are essential for giving our users a gist of what’s on the page and telling them where they are.

Ideally, page titles include a short description of the page content as well as the brand, website, or application name.

## WCAG success criterion 2.4.2 for Page titles
This states that all HTML documents (including any that we include in frames) need to include a ```<title>``` tag with descriptive information about the page content.

### Ensuring accessibility
Each page title that we write should contain the following:
- The current page content. For example, “Checkout” or “Open Positions.”
- The website, brand, or application name. For example, “ACME Corporation” or “VideoCall.”

This content should be ordered in a way that provides the most relevant and specific information first.

### Some tips
1. Short and Concise: Search engine results will only show the first 50–60 characters, so keep in mind that anything longer than that will be truncated
2. Creating informative page titles: Should not contain only generic company names or about
    - Separate content using dividing elements: Both specific and generic information about the page needs to be included in the title. Therefore, a common practice is to separate these two types of content with a -, /, •, |, etc.
    - This allows us to lead with the most important information while still ensuring that contextual information is present. For example:
        - “Shopping Cart—ACME Clothes”
        - “Home • ACMEApp”
        - “US / Careers / ACME”

## Page titles and SPAs (single-page applications)
When we’re writing a single-page application, there are a few other things that we need to do to ensure that our page titles are useful and relevant.

The issue in this situation is that the page title won’t automatically update as a user navigates through your application because it’s technically all happening within a single page. Because the user isn’t actually navigating between multiple pages, they are also not triggering any page title updates. Obviously, from an accessibility standpoint, this isn’t ideal.

In order to fix this, we need to manually update the document.title property when a new component renders. The document.title property is where the title tag information is stored in the DOM, and we can update it by assigning it a new value.

In React, we would probably do this when a component mounts, so we’d want to hook into the componentDidMount() method for class components, and in UseEffect with zero dependencies for functionl components.