# Placing and Spacing
Learn the guidelines for element placement and spacing, touch and tap zones, target size requirements, and scrolling.

Making accessible layouts and interactive UI elements - leave some (literal) room or wiggle room for error

## Touch and tap zones
Ensure that  input fields, buttons, icons, and more all take up enough visual space. Make sure that the user isn’t working with a prohibitively small target.

## Targets and minimum sizing
Target - the space in which a user can click, tap, touch, or otherwise interact to activate an element on the page. 

Common elements with target are - buttons, links, input boxes, interactive widgets like accordion and drawer components that expand to show content

**WCAG criterion 2.5.5: Requires most targets meet or exceed a minimum size of 44x44 pixels.** 
- When there are multiple targets on the screen that all perform the same action, only one is required to meet the minimum size requirements. Still, for usability purposes, it’s highly recommended that all the targets on our page are at least 44x44 pixels.
- This doesn't mean that the element itself needs to be 44X44 pixels. You can have a larger target zone and smaller CTA zone. Sometimes this can be less appealing. Check with the client for final decision.

## Spacing targets
It’s recommended that we include some blank space between our elements to allow room for error. 

**Exclusion zone:** This area of space around our target that creates a buffer.

There is no WCAG requirement for exclusion zones (beyond ensuring that your targets don’t overlap). However, it’s a suggested accessibility practice for a better user experience. **10–30 pixels** of buffer is recommended between each interactive element as a minimum.


## Scrolling
Use blank space for scrolling the page. 

On touch-based devices, scrolling happens via the touch-and-drag interaction method. This means that our users will need enough empty space on the page for them to complete the “touch” part of “touch-and-drag” without accidentally activating any targets.

Be most generous with leaving space to successfully complete these actions without accidentally triggering items on the page.