# Fluid and Adaptive Design
Learn techniques for creating fluid and adaptive designs that will adjust to user screen adjustments.

Users adjust and adapt the design to make it work for them - like zooming or using screen magnifiers, changing brightness and contrast settings, viewing on all varieties of devices and screens, etc.


## WCAG reflow requirements
WCAG 1.4.10 requirements state that content needs to work at a minimum screen size of 320 pixels wide - the approximate mobile device size

320 px is equivalent to a starting viewport width of 1280 pixels at 400% zoom

## Responsive designing
Change the look and feel of the page based on device size. 

Designers should collaborate closely with developers during the implementation and testing of this part of the work to ensure that everything on the page is still usable, even when there are size limitations.

## Preventing multidirectional scrolling
The WCAG states that content should be presented without loss of information or functionality AND without requiring scrolling in two directions.

Even when we have a page zoomed in to a high percentage, it should still scroll only horizontally or vertically, not both.

Whenever we can get an element to fit on the screen without multidirectional scrolling, we should.

Exceptions: images, videos and data tables

## Orientation adjustment
Take a look at how our layout adjusts when the orientation of the device is changed - portrait and landscape

## Responsive CSS
To meet these WCAG guidelines, we’ll need to implement responsive styling. 

Responsive styling allows the design of the page to adapt and reflow as the size of the window changes.

Below are summaries and examples of some of the primary CSS techniques we can use to achieve a fully adaptive and responsive design.
- CSS grids - allows us to create multiple rows and columns that we can populate with content. Ex. the auto-fit value for repeat property as shown below
    ```bash
    .grid {
	  display: grid;
	  grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(300px, 1fr)); 
	}

- Flexbox - is about the positioning of child elements relative to each other within the parent element. Ex. the flex-wrap property as shown below
    ```bash
    .flex {
        display: flex;
        flex-wrap: wrap;
    }
- Clamp() function - allows us to set a base value for a property, along with upper and lower caps to contain it as it adjusts. 
    - Best tools to replace media queries because it allows to set those same kinds of responsive limits without needing to define specific breakpoints to do so. Ex. The width of the image can be shown in format as `clamp(min value, base value, max value)`
    ```bash
    img {
	    width: clamp(100px, 100%, 500px);
    }

- Percentages - allow us to define a unit as a percentage of its parent element
    - Truly foundational element of responsive design and shouldn’t be overlooked just because of its simplicity