# Understandable language

Microcopy - the small pieces of text in user interfaces such as button labels, alt text, input placeholder text

## WCAG guidelines
WCAG Guideline 3.1 pertains to the use of clear and descriptive language so the content of the website or application can be easily understood by everyone.

- Specifying languages 
    - WCAG Guidelines 3.1.1 and 3.1.2 are both regarding the specification of language. These are relatively simple guidelines, which state that the languages must be able to be programmatically determined. This means that various assistive technologies can find and extract relevant information related to language from our websites or applications.
        - include a lang attribute: It allows assistive technologies to know what to expect and adjust accordingly. This attribute can be used on any tag that contains content in a language different from the primary language specified at the `<html>` level.
        - `<p lang="es">Hola Mundo</p>`. The setting lang="es" will allow an assistive technology to know that it needs to switch to a left-to-right text orientation and/or speak the text aloud with the correct accent/voice file.


- Writing that’s easy to understand
   - WCAG Guidelines 3.1.3–3.1.6 all have to do with making potentially difficult words or language more easily understandable for the average user.
   - The WCAG identifies four main situations we need to be aware of with regard to writing content that is understandable for most of our users:
        - Defining unusual words - add in line definition or link to the glossary. Ex. Objects in regular speech vs JS, cultural idioms or phrases, words that require advanced knowledge like polymorphism 
        - Explaining abbreviations - acronyms like OOP, numeronym like i18n or a11ly, shortened words like char for character, etc.
            - use the `<abbr>` semantic tag
        - Writing to the average reading level -Tthe reading level of our text should be understandable to people who have completed nine years of schooling. Ex. Abstracts and summaries provided for scientific research articles. Their meaning can be conveyed by providing photos, illustrations, diagrams, and spoken/sign-language versions of the content. Providing alternate methods of explanation is encouraged and appreciated. 
        - Clarifying pronunciation -  can be done via phonetic pronunciation guides, links to a glossary, sound recordings, or comparisons to other words, etc.