# Buttons and Links
Understand the difference between buttons and links and why this matters for accessible websites and applications.

# Buttons
**A button should always use the `<button>` tag.**

They are for actions. When a user clicks on a button, it should trigger some kind of change to the current status of the website or application. Ex. form submission, add an item to the list or open modal, etc.

A button shouldn’t take the user to a new page unless that is part of a multistep action, such as a button that says “Save and quit.

In general, buttons:
- Are rectangular or oval-shaped.

- Are separated from the surrounding layout, often by a border or drop shadow.

- Their action should be described in the text of the button itself. 
    - If the action is complicated, it’s also acceptable for nearby text to explain in greater detail what happens when the button is clicked

- Have some kind of change in style to indicate interaction.

- Return to their base style after the interaction is complete.

# Links
**A link should always use the `<a>` tag.**

Links exist to help navigate the user between pages.

Link behavior includes both internal and external navigation. 
- Internal: within the website or application
- External: take users to other websites or applications outside the own app

Links should have meaningful name (because it is read by assistive technologies). 

Links should not be forced to open in a new tab. This makes forward and backward navigation difficult and can be a surprising and unwanted behavior. Users can choose if they want to open a link in a new tab by choosing the “open link in new tab” option themselves from the context menu.

In general, Links: 
- Are underlined text. Sometimes, this underline can be styled (such as a dotted or dashed line), but it should always be present. This is the most important indication of a link and shouldn’t be omitted.

- Are separated from the surrounding text by a change in color or font style (such as bolding). By default, this color is blue, although we can style it to match our design.

- May or may not have an interaction style (but usually don’t).

- Change the color after the interaction is complete to indicate that the link has already been visited. By default, this color is purple, although we can style it to match our design.
