# Accessible Forms
Understand what is required to write accessible forms.

## Guide
Use the list below as a guide for thoroughly testing our form for keyboard navigability:
- Can we focus on every question in the form?

- Can we go backward in the form to correct or change an answer we entered earlier?

- If the form has a lot of questions, how much time and how many clicks does it take us to tab through the entire thing to get to a specific question at the beginning or end?
    - If this is an issue, we can resolve it by either 
        - breaking up our form into a multipage form,  or
        - breaking up our content into sections with (semantically correct) headers that our users can jump between easily.

    - If the form is a multipage form, can we easily navigate back and forth between the pages without accidentally focusing on a question?

- Can we easily use every single input in the form?
    - Pay special attention to complex inputs such as color pickers, multi-selects, date/time selectors, and similar. Anything that includes a drop-down should always be tested carefully.

- Can we easily navigate (and exit) any pop-ups or modals that appear as part of the form?
    - This is a common problem with confirmation or error dialogs. We have to make sure our testing includes the actual submission of the form, not just the completion.

## Labelling 
Common practice to avoid is the placement of field labels inside the input box. - inaccessible approach
- These kinds of labels which often don’t make use of the semantic `<label>` HTML tag, which means screen readers will overlook them or improperly identify them.
- The labels disappear when the user clicks into the box and begins to type. This can be confusing for users who might not remember what the input was for

## Clarity of instruction
Microcopy — the short pieces of text that appear on buttons, notifications, error messages, and form input descriptions. Please do not be verbose while giving these instructions. 

At a minimum, each form input requires a label according to WCAG criterion 2.4.6

## Grouping related content
Longer form can feel overwhelming to our users.
- Good idea is to use white space to break up that big block of input fields and make the form feel more easily digestible
    - But by putting space between elements, we’re creating and breaking associations 

- Best approach, place the related items close to each other.
    - One section of form for personal info, another one for address, bank accounts, document upload, etc. 
    - When we group those related questions/fields, it makes our form easier to skim and less likely to scare our users away before they even start.
    - Make use of the `<fieldset>` element

## Breaking up long forms
Best UX patterns - Break the information gathering flow into multiple steps. You can make use of stepper element for this. 
- This approach can help a form feel shorter by removing the endless scroll feeling
- Gives users a visual representation of how much they have to complete
- It’s a great way to create a more positive user experience as well as increase the chances that they complete the form.

When we’re creating multistep forms, there are some best practices we should keep in mind:
- Always include some kind of stepper or progress bar to give the user an idea of how far they’ve come, as well as how much is left to go. Be sure to use semantic HTML components, such as the `<progress>` tag to ensure that this information is accessible as well.

- Group related questions on the same page. Avoid breaking up related question sections with page breaks.

- Be clear about the final submission button vs. the next button. In many multipage forms, the “Submit” button appears right where the “Next” button has previously appeared and often looks visually identical. This can lead to users clicking “Submit” while thinking they still have another page or two to fill out. Make sure the “Submit” button is visually different. 

- Consider adding a review page or confirmation modal to give users the chance to read over and review their answers before the final submission.

## Writing useful error messages
WCAG guideline 3.3.1 deals with error identification and tells us that if an error is found, then the item in error needs to be identified and described to the user in text.

A good error message identifies that there is a problem, tells the user what the problem is, and also tells them how they can solve it.
- To meet WCAG criteria, this all needs to be done with text, not icons, images, or videos (although those can optionally be provided in addition to text).
