# Understanding value and color contrast
Learn the importance of color contrast and value, and how these design principles impact accessible design.

## Flexible UIs are accessible UIs. Consider Wiggle rooms
- Allowing rooms for adjustment in all of our design decisions.
- This idea is about providing more than just extra physical spacing between elements. 
- Allows for flexibility and accommodates fluctuations so that the users can change things without fear of breaking the interface. 
- As we create different aspects of our UIs, it’s important to keep this concept in mind and consider where we can allow for that flexibility in our work.

## Color contrast
- Choose colors to meet the accessible standard for color constrast
- WCAG Guidelines 1.4.3 and 1.4.6 define acceptable color contrast ratios and categorize them into failing, AA, and AAA ratings
    - Failing means that colors don’t meet the minimum required amount of contrast. Solve it: By adjusting one or more colors
    - AA means that colors have the minimum amount of contrast to be understandable but might still present problems for some users. Solve it: By tuning the color contrast more
    - AAA level means you have achieved extremely high contrast that should be readable for the vast majority of your users. 

## Accommodating user display adjustments
- As the quality of the screen or monitor has a significant impact on how the display looks, colors look different on different screens
- Common adjustments users make: night shift, brightness and contrast, monitor settings, and resolution
- We don't know the situation of user, therefore we should build in flexibility, as much as we can, so that our users have wiggle room to make the adjustments they need without breaking our designs

One of the best ways we can allow our designs to remain intact despite all of this is to pay attention to the **color contrast ratios** and ensure that they not only comply with but exceed the WCAG standards.

## Color contrast analyzers
- Google Chrome Dev tools
- Adobe Color accessibility tool

## Other factors that influence contrast
- Text or icon color against background color. 
    - Do this: Adjust color contrast
- The text or icon size
    - Do this: Adjust the text size, maybe increase or decrease if needed
- Text weight or line thickness of font - determines readability
    - with thinline fonts, our eyes struggle because the distinguishing details of the letters are too difficult to see against the background
        - Do this: Adjust font weight
    - With thick or very heavy fonts, our eyes struggle because it’s difficult to discern the shape of the letters as opposed to each other
        - Do this: Adjust font weight

Want to use a specific font but struggling with accessibility, try changing the **font weight**.

## Value
**Value is the lightness or darkness of the hue**. When we talk about color contrast, we actually mean comparison of their values

Colors can be changed in three ways:
1. Add white to the tint
2. Add grey to create a tone
3. Add black to create a shade

When the values of two different colors are too similar, that’s when we run into contrast issues.

**Quick check for contrast:** Convert your work to greyscale. It takes the hue out of the equation and only shows the black-and-white values. If we can’t easily read the text or understand the design in greyscale, chances are we have a color accessibility issue that needs solving.