# Communicating information without colors
Learn approaches for communicating information without relying on color.

At times, Color is used as the sole method for conveying information.
- UI switches that use color to communicate their state
- form input using colored outlines as validation feedback
- Charts with color-only keys

## Color A11y Audit check
Switch to greyscale and check color contrast and readability.
    
If you can’t make sense of a design when it’s in black-and-white, that’s a red flag. Designs should never be entirely reliant on color to be functional.

WCAG criterion 1.4.1 offers guidelines around how we can best use color in a way that will add to our designs without excluding these users

## Important suggestion
Add, don’t subtract.

Don't remove an inaccessible element, that's the fastest solution. Instead check what can be added to that element to make it accessible. 

Similary for color, don't remove the color entirely. Consider what we can use in addition to color to reinforce the message we’re trying to communicate.

## Design patterns for color accessibility
Three helpful design patterns that can be used to attach a secondary method of identification to information, so that color is never the sole method of communication.
1. Add icons and symbols to the design - adds visual interest to the page

2. Differentiating state or status through an icon like (O/I) - adds extra information

3. Creating associations between related content - adding heart for relationship content, truck for fleet, light bulb for brain storming, etc. 

    When taking this approach, it’s important to always make sure the color and icon are always used together to reinforce the association. Try to avoid using one without the other.

4. Patterns and textures - most helpful for data visualisations. Bar charts can have patterns/textures along with colors, which distinguish them. 

    Ex. Projected (cross hatched lines) and actual incomes (polka dots) for various categories (Cash flow, expenses, income) can be represented using both, colors and patterns. Color can add visual interest to the chart, but with this approach, it’s no longer a requirement for reading and understanding the chart material.

    Ex. In form validations, you can use dotted color outlines to show validation checks like errors. By using a patterned border, we can still attract the user’s attention to that input by differentiating it from the others, without relying on color to do so.

5. Descriptive text - add text to clarify an image, component, or other element. Convey switch information through ON and OFF text.

Excellent interfaces will leverage multiple forms of communication to most effectively guide the user. To level up the UX and accessibility of your UI, try combining all of these methods.

