# Section Headings and Semantic Hierarchy
Learn proactive planning strategies for harmonizing page design with semantic requirements.

## Always!!
Map out the semantic structure and hierarchy of our page before writing the first line of code.

Semantic HTML is crucial to accessibility in a variety of ways, but there’s more to it than just which tags you use for which element

## Enhancing UX with element sequence
- WCAG 1.3 (Adaptable) ensures that structure, meaning, and relationships in your content are conveyed through semantic markup, not just visually so that users with assistive technologies can understand and navigate it effectively.

- This means that no matter how the page is rearranged (via screen size, zoom, or magnification) or interpreted via assistive technology (such as a screen reader), there are still ways to communicate the page’s structure.

## Understanding visual hierarchy
- Related to the way we communicate the relative importance of various elements based on their placement on the page.

- It creates contrast in a design by combining the use of size, placement, and color to manipulate the visual weight of each element and help the most important elements stand out.


## Semantic structure
- Communicate the details of the elements
- Also communicates information about the placement of each element on the page and the structure of the entire layout

## Valuing content over appearance
- Six heading levels - H1, H2, H3, H4, H5, H6. Each of these heading levels communicates something specific about the hierarchy. 

- Anchor tags - use only for links, or may be as button only if the control is navigating to a new page. That's technically, a link only.

- Buttons - use this CTA only if you are taking action on the same page. 

## Order matters!
The order of these semantic HTML elements is important for proper syntax.

- Only one H1 element on the page
- The heading levels should be used in descending order without skipping any levels
- ```<table>s``` expect ```<tr>s``` or ```<td>s```,
- ```<ul>s``` expect ```<li>s```.